EMPATHY

Your score on the Empathy Quotient (EQ) test is: 25

How does your score compare to the general population? See the table below. Simply compare your score to the categories below. Because females do score higher than males, we have also included the averages based on gender.
TABLE

Empathy is a very important aspect of daily life. It enables people to tune into how others are feeling, and to understanding what they may be thinking. It allows people to predict peoples behavior, react appropriately to others, and to interact effectively in social settings. From the onset of infancy, children begin to display empathetic behavior, and as they grow into early childhood they develop what is termed "theory of mind". Theory of Mind, or "mind-reading" is the ability to place your own feelings aside, and to attribute and infer a mental state of another based on their experience. Whereas Theory of Mind has to do with the cognitive component of empathy, there is an affective component as well which has to do with your ability to emotionally respond appropriately to the affect state of another. The Empathy Quotient (EQ) is a test that measures both the affective and cognitive components of empathy. In general, females score higher than males on EQ, and some evidence suggests that EQ increases with age.


SYSTEMIZING

Your score on the Systemizing Quotient (SQ) test is: 20

How does your score compare to the general population? See the table below. Simply compare your scores to the categories below. Because males score higher than females, we have also included the averages based on gender.
TABLE

Systemizing is the drive to analyze and construct systems, to predict the behavior of a system, and to control it. Systemizing is a very important aspect of everyday life. It helps us to navigate, make sense of, and understand our external world. The Systemizing Quotient (SQ) test measures the ability to systemize for a wide range of systems including mechanical(e.g., machines), abstract(e.g., mathematics), and organizable(e.g., taxonomy) systems. In general, males score higher on the SQ than females.


Please provide us with any insights or comments about our survey.
We welcome your feedback!
COMMENT_BOX
