You have completed the study.

GOOGLEPLUS_LINK & TWITTER_LINK & FACEBOOK_LINK

Your result:
Your data suggest little or no automatic association between Female and Male with Career and Family..

The sorting test you just took is called the Implicit Association Test (IAT). You categorized Female and Male names and words related to Career and Family.

Disclaimer: The results are not a definitive assessment of your implicit preference. The results may be influenced by variables related to the test (e.g., the category labels or particular items used to represent the categories on the IAT) or the person (e.g., how tired you are). The results are provided for educational prurposes only.

How Does The IAT Work?
The IAT measures the strength of associations between concepts (e.g., Female/Male and Career/Family). The main idea is that making a response is easier when closely related items share the same response key.
We would say that one has an implicit association between Male and 'Career' relative to Female and 'Career' if they are faster to categorize words when Male and 'Career' share a response key relative to when Female and 'Career' share a response key.

Why Should I Care About My IAT Score?
Implicit preferences can predict behavior. Implicit preferences are related to discrimination in hiring and promotion, medical treatment, and decisions related to criminal justice.

What Can I Do About an Implicit Preference That I Do Not Want?
Right now, there is not enough research to say for sure that implicit biases can be reduced, let alone eliminated. Packaged 'diversity trainings' generally do not use evidence-based methods of reducing implicit biases. Therefore, we encourage people to instead focus on strategies that deny implicit biases the change to operate, such as blind auditions and well-designed "structured" decision processes.

Other People's Results
The summary of other people's results shows that most people implicitly associate male with career - i.e., they are faster sorting when career words and male words go with the same key. Notably, about a third of the people included in this graph resort associating the two groups equally with the concepts of career and family.
VISUALIZATION

What About Order Effects?
One very common question is about the order of the parts of the IAT. The answer is yes, the order in which you take the test can influence on your overall results. But, the effect is very small. So if you first pair Career + Male and then pair Career + Female, your results might show a tiny bit more of an association with Male and Career than they would have if you had done the reverse pairing first. One way that we try to minimize this order effect is by giving more practice trials before the second pairing than we did before the first pairing. It is also important to know that each participant is randomly assigned to an order, so half of test-takers complete Career + Male and then Career + Female, and the other half of the test-takers get the opposite order.

I Still Have Questions About The IAT
If you have questions about your IAT performance or score, please consult the links at the top of the page, where you will find answers to frequently asked questions, links to related research, and additional information about implicit associations. You may also email us (LINK) with questions or comments.

Your Participation And Financial Support Are Important!
Thank you again for participating in this research! We have learned so much from people like you taking the time to be part of our work. If you have time, please consider taking another test by clicking the button below. As a non-profit organization, we would also appreciate your financial support. Since establishment in 2005, we have educated more than a million visitors each year about implicit biases concerning race, gender, sexual orientation, and other topics. Your donation supports Project Implicit's educational, scientific, and public service missions. Click here to donate (LINK).

Donate to Project Implicit (LINK) & Take another test (LINK)
