Project Soothe Survey (Set 18)
100% complete

End of Survey
Thank you for completing our survey. We appreciate your time and effort. Your survey responses are a valuable contribution to our research and will help us to help others in the future through psychotherapy and research. If you have enjoyed your research experience please tell your family, friends, and colleagues about Project Soothe and help us spread the word around the world.

Enter our Prize Draw
Thank you for taking the time to complete our survey. We really appreciate your thoughts and opinions. To show our appreciation, we welcome you to enter our prize draw for a chance to win a 30pound Amazon gift voucher. We will select a winner at random at the end of this phase of our research. To enter our prize draw, please visit our website here (LINK).


Did you know?
We have over 500 images in our research database each allocated to a survey, just like this one. We welcome you to visit the survey page on our website again to evaluate more images in our research database. You can complete as many surveys as you like, as many times as you like. Every completed survey makes a valuable contribution to Project Soothe.

As you have learned, every soothing image submitted to Project Soothe has the potential to help someone in the future. Therefore, we welcome you to consider submitting your own soothing image(s) to our research. You can submit as many as you wish. Every image matters.

You can evaluate more soothing images, or submit your own, now by visiting our website here (LINK).


Would you like to participate in our future research studies?
Project Soothe adopts an innovative Citizen Scientist approach, which means that we welcome members of the public, just like you, to get involved in our research at every stage. If you would like to receive a special e-invitation to participate in our future studies, simply register your interest via our website here (LINK).


Do you need support?
We hope that you have enjoyed your research experience, but understand that completing survey questions about your mood can sometimes make you more aware of your health and wellbeing. If you feel that you would like to talk to someone about your health and wellbeing we would encourage you to contact your family doctor, or one of the organisations listed below, for help and support.
Childline (LINK) Tel: 0800 1111
LGBT Foundation (LINK) Tel: 0345 3 30 303 30
Mind (LINK) Tel: 03003 123 3393
NHS (LINK) 24 Tel: 111
Refuge (LINK) Tel: 0808 2000 247
Samaritans (LINK) Tel: 116 123
Turning Point (LINK) Tel: 020 7481 7600


Contact Us
If you would like to write to us with a question or comment, please email info@projectsoothe.com (LINK)

With kindness,
Stella, Matthias, Fiona and Angela
