Your Results

Famous Faces
Research purpose
In this test, you had to identify famous people from images where hair and other nonface information were removed. Face recognition is much harder when one doesnt have these external cues, and tests like this are very challenging for people who suffer from a condition called prosopagnosia (also known as faceblindness).

Understanding results
There are some limitations you should keep in mind as you look at your feedback. Each of these experiments represents an area of active research - until we have gathered many results from people like you, we cant conclude anything about what volunteers results mean. Furthermore, these kinds of results are only meaningful at the group level - that is, they may reflect patterns that apply on average and not necessarily to any one person. For example, lets say we decided to do a study examining gender and hair length. We might find that, on average, women have longer hair than men. However, having long hair doesnt make you female and being female doesnt give you long hair. In other words, females have longer hair on average, but this logic cannot be applied to individuals.

If you are surprised by your results on any of these tests, you shouldnt be concerned. There are many reasons why scores on this task might differ. For instance, differences in computer systems or distractions while doing the task can affect results. This task was not designed to specifically assess you, and the scores can vary widely among the people who complete it.

If you have questions about these or any of your results, please contact us (LINK) at testmybrain@gmail.com (LINK).

Your results
This was a test of your ability to recognize famous faces. Your score is the number of faces you correctly identified.
High scores indicate better famous face recognition.

Your score was 20. The average score is 8.
VISUALIZATION

Your scored higher than nine out of every ten people who took this test:
VISUALIZATION

Return to the homepage (LINK)

If you have any questions or comments about your results, please contact us (LINK).
Related research
If you are interested in learning more about faceblindness, a disorder where people find it difficult to recognize faces, you can click here (LINK) to go to FaceBlind.org.

Share us on facebook FACEBOOK_LINK
